Line graphs are the most commonly used visualization for showing time series trends,
or the measurement of something over time.
The x-axis or the horizontal axis,
is focused on a constant time interval,
usually ascending from recency.
In this case, it's the day of order.
The y-axis or vertical axis plots the value of what is being measured.
In this case, it's the number of total orders.
When analyzing data via a line graphs,
it's always good to split your analyses out by different dimensions if you're interested
in measuring differences in behavior
according to the different segments in your data set.
For this example, we're visualizing total orders by month,
but this time, split against the different vendors in your data set.
This enables us to see that the total orders for
vendor 2 is a little higher than vendor 1,
but seems to be converging in the recent months.
Pie charts are great for low cardinality analyses.
As in against the dimension that
compares only a small number of values against each other,
this time vendor 1 versus vendor 2.
Pie charts are not ideal for high cardinality analyses,
or against dimensions that have a high number of values.
In this case, each day of the month.
Some examples of low cardinality analyses that are suited for pie charts
are measuring the overall market share of a product between its competitors,
or measuring the usage splits of a product between different regions like EMEA,
APAC and Latin America.
Doughnut charts function just like pie charts,
except well, shaped like a doughnut.
Say you're the product manager for a grocery delivery app,
and you are looking to build a feature that automatically promotes
churning items when they're discounted due to seasonality.
To measure the viability of this feature,
you will need to see if there's enough price fluctuation in the trending items.
Let's focus on one item in particular, the avocado.
We have a data set containing avocado sales.
First, you'll need to take the average price measure and peg it as a row.
We'll want to cast it to an average of averages instead of a sum of averages.
This shows the average avocado price across all of time,
but we all want to measure if the price changes over time.
Take your date dimension,
and peg it as a column.
From here, you can change the granularity of the date interval from year,
to quarter, to month,
day or even any custom value.
Let's keep it at month.
You can break out the line graph into any other dimension like avocado type.
Simply place the dimension as a mark and
ensure that you have selected on a continuous line as the chart type.
From here, you can see the time series split of
the average price of organic versus conventional avocados.
To better visualize the comparison of the relative percentage of
organic versus conventional avocados in terms of total sales,
replace average price with total volume,
remove the date and visualize this as a pie chart.
We can now see that conventional avocados makes up roughly 95 percent of total sales.